# Reboot CSS

Reboot is a collection of element-specific CSS changes in a single file to help kickstart building a site with the Fluent UI Blazor library. It provides an elegant, consistent, and simple baseline to build upon (inspired by Bootstrap's Reboot which again is based on Normalize.css).

If you want to use Reboot, like this demo site, you'll need to include it in your `App.razor` or `index.html` file like this:

```html
<link href="/_content/Microsoft.FluentUI.AspNetCore.Components/css/reboot.css" rel="stylesheet" />
```

If you are creating a site by using our Templates package, this is already set up for you. You can download the file to see what's inside.

**PS:** It is entirely possible to build a site without using Reboot but you will have to do more styling yourself.

**PSs:** When creating a site that is hosted in a different base path, it might be necessary to remove the leading '/' from the stylesheet link.

## Approach

Reboot builds upon Bootstrap's Reboot which itself builds upon Normalize, providing many HTML elements with somewhat opinionated styles using only element selectors.

Here are our guidelines and reasons for choosing what to override in Reboot:

*   Update some browser default values to use `rem`s instead of `em`s for scalable component spacing.
*   Avoid `margin-top`. Vertical margins can collapse, yielding unexpected results. More importantly though, a single direction of margin is a simpler mental model.
*   For easier scaling across device sizes, block elements should use `rem`s for margins.
*   Keep declarations of `font`-related properties to a minimum, using `inherit` whenever possible.

## Page defaults

The `<html>` and `<body>` elements are updated to provide better page-wide defaults. More specifically:

*   The `box-sizing` is globally set on every element—including `*::before` and `*::after`, to `border-box`. This ensures that the declared width of element is never exceeded due to padding or border.
*   No base `font-size` is declared on the `<html>`, but `--type-ramp-base-font-size: 14px;` is assumed (the Fluent UI default). `font-size: var(--type-ramp-base-font-size)` is applied on the `<body>` and can be overridden by modifying the `--type-ramp-base-font-size` variable.
*   The `<body>` also sets a global `font-family` (`var(--body-font)`), `font-weight` (`var(--font-weight)`), `line-height` (`var(--type-ramp-base-font-size)`), and `color` (`var(--neutral-base-color);`). This is inherited later by some form elements to prevent font inconsistencies.
*   For safety, the `<body>` has a declared `background-color`, defaulting to `var(--neutral-fill-layer-rest)`.

## Headings and paragraphs

All heading elements—e.g., `<h1>`—and `<p>` are reset to have their `margin-top` removed. Headings have `margin-bottom: .5rem` added and paragraphs `margin-bottom: 1rem` for easy spacing.

| Heading | Example |
| :--- | :--- |
| `<h1></h1>` | **h1. Fluent UI heading** |
| `<h2></h2>` | **h2. Fluent UI heading** |
| `<h3></h3>` | **h3. Fluent UI heading** |
| `<h4></h4>` | **h4. Fluent UI heading** |
| `<h5></h5>` | **h5. Fluent UI heading** |
| `<h6></h6>` | **h6. Fluent UI heading** |

## Lists

All lists—`<ul>`, `<ol>`, and `<dl>`—have their `margin-top` removed and a `margin-bottom: 1rem`. Nested lists have no `margin-bottom`. We’ve also reset the `padding-left` on `<ul>` and `<ol>` elements.

*   All lists have their top margin removed
*   And their bottom margin normalized
*   Nested lists have no bottom margin
    *   This way they have a more even appearance
    *   Particularly when followed by more list items
*   The left padding has also been reset
1.  Here’s an ordered list
2.  With a few list items
3.  It has the same overall look
4.  As the previous unordered list

For simpler styling, clear hierarchy, and better spacing, description lists have updated margins. `<dd>`s reset `margin-left` to `0` and add `margin-bottom: .5rem`. `<dt>`s are **bolded**.

<dl>
  <dt>Description lists</dt>
  <dd>A description list is perfect for defining terms.</dd>
  <dt>Term</dt>
  <dd>Definition for the term.</dd>
  <dd>A second definition for the same term.</dd>
  <dt>Another term</dt>
  <dd>Definition for this other term.</dd>
</dl>

### Inline code

Wrap inline snippets of code with `<code>`. Be sure to escape HTML angle brackets. For example, `<section>` should be wrapped as inline.

### Code blocks

Use `<pre>`s for multiple lines of code. Once again, be sure to escape any angle brackets in the code for proper rendering. The `<pre>` element is reset to remove its `margin-top` and use `rem` units for its `margin-bottom`.

```html
<p>Sample text here...</p>
<p>And another line of sample text here...</p>
```

### Variables

For indicating variables use the `<var>` tag.

<var>y</var> = <var>m</var><var>x</var> + <var>b</var>

### User input

Use the `<kbd>` to indicate input that is typically entered via keyboard.

To switch directories, type <kbd>cd</kbd> followed by the name of the directory.

To edit settings, press <kbd>ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>,</kbd>

### Sample output

For indicating sample output from a program use the `<samp>` tag.

<samp>This text is meant to be treated as sample output from a computer program.</samp>

## Tables

Tables are slightly adjusted to style `<caption>`s, collapse borders, and ensure consistent `text-align` throughout. Additional changes for borders, padding, and more come with the `.table` class.

| Table heading | Table heading | Table heading | Table heading |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Table cell | Table cell | Table cell | Table cell |
| Table cell | Table cell | Table cell | Table cell |
| Table cell | Table cell | Table cell | Table cell |
> This is an example table, and this is its caption to describe the contents.

## Forms

To maintain a consistent look and feel, we strongly advise you to use the Fluent Input components as described in the Form & inputs section. It is however also still possible of course to use the standard HTML input components. Most of them have been rebooted for simpler base styles. Here are some of the most notable changes:

*   `<fieldset>`s have no borders, padding, or margin so they can be easily used as wrappers for individual inputs or groups of inputs.
*   `<legend>`s, like fieldsets, have also been restyled to be displayed as a heading of sorts.
*   `<label>`s are set to `display: inline-block` to allow `margin` to be applied.
*   `<input>`s, `<select>`s, `<textarea>`s, and `<button>`s are mostly addressed by Normalize, but Reboot removes their `margin` and sets `line-height: inherit`, too.
*   `<textarea>`s are modified to only be resizable vertically as horizontal resizing often “breaks” page layout.
*   `<button>`s and `<input>` button elements have `cursor: pointer` when `:not(:disabled)`.

### Pointers on buttons

Reboot includes an enhancement for `role="button"` to change the default cursor to `pointer`. Add this attribute to elements to help indicate elements are interactive. This role isn’t necessary for `<button>` elements, which get their own cursor change.

## Misc elements

### Address

The `<address>` element is updated to reset the browser default `font-style` from `italic` to `normal`. `line-height` is also now inherited, and `margin-bottom: 1rem` has been added. `<address>`s are for presenting contact information for the nearest ancestor (or an entire body of work). Preserve formatting by ending lines with `<br>`.

<address>
  <strong>Microsoft Corporation</strong><br>
  1 Microsoft Way<br>
  Redmond, WA 98052<br>
  P: (425) 882-8080
</address>

<address>
  <strong>Full Name</strong><br>
  <a href="mailto:first.last@example.com">first.last@example.com</a>
</address>

### Blockquote

The default `margin` on blockquotes is `1em 40px`.

> A well-known quote, contained in a blockquote element.
>
> <cite>Someone famous in Source Title</cite>

### Inline elements

The `<abbr>` element receives basic styling to make it stand out amongst paragraph text.

The <abbr title="HyperText Markup Language">HTML</abbr> abbreviation element.

### Summary

The default `cursor` on `summary` is `text`, so we reset that to `pointer` to convey that the element can be interacted with by clicking on it.

<details>
  <summary>Some details</summary>
  <p>Even more details</p>
  <p>Here are even more details about the details.</p>
</details>

## HTML5 `[hidden]` attribute

HTML5 adds a new global attribute named `[hidden]`, which is styled as `display: none` by default. Borrowing an idea from PureCSS, we improve upon this default by making `[hidden] { display: none !important; }` to help prevent its `display` from getting accidentally overridden.