# Blazor Hybrid

> **Note:** The workaround below only applies to .NET 8 (and below). As of .NET 9 this workaround is no longer needed. If you have this workaround in place for a .NET 9 project, your Blazor Hybrid application will not load.

It is possible to use this library in your Blazor Hybrid projects. The setup is almost the same as described in the "Getting started" section; however, to get everything to work, you'll need to take one extra step.

## Temporary workaround for MAUI/WPF/Windows Forms issues

Currently, when using `WebView` to run Blazor (in all Hybrid variants), the web-components script is not imported automatically (see issue #404). There is also an issue with loading the custom event handlers that are being configured by the web-components script. Until these are fixed on the `WebView` side, a workaround is available. This involves intercepting `_framework/blazor.modules.json` and providing the proper JS initializers created by the build. The necessary script is included in the main library and needs to be added with a `<script>` tag before the `_framework/blazor.webview.js` script tag.

```html
<script app-name="{NAME OF YOUR APP}" src="./_content/Microsoft.FluentUI.AspNetCore.Components/js/initializersLoader.webview.js"></script>
<script src="_framework/blazor.webview.js"></script>
```

The `app-name` attribute must match your app's assembly name. The script uses 'app-name' to resolve the name of the file containing the initializers. The `initializersLoader.webview.js` script replaces the standard `fetch` function with one that provides the correct file in place of the empty `blazor.modules.json`. The `fetch` function is restored to its original state once the `_framework/blazor.modules.json` request is intercepted.

For more information regarding this bug, see [issue 15234 in the MAUI repo](https://github.com/dotnet/maui/issues/15234).